index.md, before:

---
title: Dips and Domes - A new theory of space
headline: Dips and Domes
subheadline: A new theory of space
description: Explains the mismatch between brightness and red shift of distant stars without the need for dark energy.
---


<section class="synopsis" markdown="1">
## Synopsis: 

Far distant nova appear dimmer than their [redshift](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Redshift) distance would indicate. 
This discovery led to the [theory of dark energy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dark_energy). There is a reason the nova appear dimmer. 
[Gravitational lens](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gravitational_lens) have an effect on celestial brightness. 
Galaxy clusters create a convex gravitational lens making objects behind them brighter. 
The convex lens concentrates light. 
The great voids in the universe create a concave gravitational lens and objects behind them appear dimmer. 
The concave lens disperses light. 
The far distant nova are dimmer than they would be, if their light had not passed through cosmic voids. 
Dark energy causing acceleration of the expansion rate of the universe is not required to explain the dimmer nova.

In 1997, two separate teams studied far distant galaxies and measured their distances using two different methods, red shift and the brightness of type Ia supernovae. The type Ia supernovae distance measurement was farther away than the red shift indicated. The discrepancy indicated that the expansion rate of the universe is accelerating. The accepted theory to explain the acceleration is dark energy.
</section>

<section class="theory" markdown="1">
# Dips and Domes

<aside class="graphs" markdown="1">

![Dip](assets/images/dip.jpg)

![Dome](assets/images/dome.jpg)

</aside>

There is another reason that the galaxies are dimmer than what the redshift distance would indicate.

Diagrams of the space time deformation due the presence of a massive body often look like a bowling ball on a trampoline. 
The diagram is depicting a dip in space time. 
Imagine the massive body and the space surrounding it with a plane bisecting the body and the space around it. 
A 3 dimensional graph showing the gravitational potential at every point on the plane would look a lot like the surface of the trampoline with the bowling ball in the middle. 
The gravitational field around a body could be referred to as a dip in space time.

Now imagine one of the great voids of the cosmos. This void is encircled with galaxy clusters connected by tendrils of galaxies. 
Imagine a a plane bisecting the void and surrounding clusters and tendrils. 
A 3 dimensional graph showing the gravitational potential at every point on this plane would look like a dome. 
Now the imaginary trampoline has a huge fan underneath blowing the surface up, forming the dome. 
Traveling in any direction from the center of a void takes you to a place with a lower gravitational potential. 
The great voids of the cosmos result in space time domes.

Gravitational lensing is a familiar phenomenon. 
Massive galaxy clusters can make more distant galaxies look distorted because of the lens effect. 
It also makes them larger and brighter. 
The dip in space time is responsible for gravitational lensing. 
It acts a a convex lens and brightens and magnifies objects behind it. 
The point of this document is to suggest that a space time dome acts differently than a space time dip. 
The dome would act as a concave lens and disperse light. 
This would make objects behind it appear dimmer and smaller.

The distances of far distant objects were measured using the redshift method and the [type Ia supernovae method](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Type_Ia_supernova#Light_curve). 
The supernovas were dimmer than the redshift method would predict. 
The difference does not require acceleration of the expansion rate of the universe verse. 
The reason is  the light from the supernovae passed through one or more voids in the cosmos and appears dimmer as a result.
</section>

<section class="about" markdown="1">
### About the Author <img class="float-right img-thumbnail" src="assets/images/jack-coate.jpg" alt="" />

Jack Coate is a self-described "crank scientist" who thinks up speculative theories that usually run in contrast to mainstream science. 

Jack can be reached for comment at [post@dipsanddomes.space](mailto:post@dipsanddomes.space).
<div class="clearfix"></div>
</section>


<div>

</div>

Commit message:

The universe is a gravational lens

index.md, after:

---
title: Dips and Domes - The Universe is a Gravitational Lens
headline: Dips and Domes
subheadline: The Universe is a Gravitational Lens
description: A new theory of space that the mismatch between brightness and red shift of distant stars without the need for dark energy.
---


<section class="synopsis" markdown="1">
## Synopsis: 

Far distant nova appear dimmer than their [redshift](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Redshift) distance would indicate. 
This discovery led to the [theory of dark energy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dark_energy). There is a reason the nova appear dimmer. 
[Gravitational lens](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gravitational_lens) have an effect on celestial brightness. 
Galaxy clusters create a convex gravitational lens making objects behind them brighter. 
The convex lens concentrates light. 
The great voids in the universe create a concave gravitational lens and objects behind them appear dimmer. 
The concave lens disperses light. 
The far distant nova are dimmer than they would be, if their light had not passed through cosmic voids. 
Dark energy causing acceleration of the expansion rate of the universe is not required to explain the dimmer nova.

In 1997, two separate teams studied far distant galaxies and measured their distances using two different methods, red shift and the brightness of type Ia supernovae. The type Ia supernovae distance measurement was farther away than the red shift indicated. The discrepancy indicated that the expansion rate of the universe is accelerating. The accepted theory to explain the acceleration is dark energy.
</section>

<section class="theory" markdown="1">
# Dips and Domes

<aside class="graphs" markdown="1">

![Dip](assets/images/dip.jpg)

![Dome](assets/images/dome.jpg)

</aside>

There is another reason that the galaxies are dimmer than what the redshift distance would indicate.

Diagrams of the space time deformation due the presence of a massive body often look like a bowling ball on a trampoline. 
The diagram is depicting a dip in space time. 
Imagine the massive body and the space surrounding it with a plane bisecting the body and the space around it. 
A 3 dimensional graph showing the gravitational potential at every point on the plane would look a lot like the surface of the trampoline with the bowling ball in the middle. 
The gravitational field around a body could be referred to as a dip in space time.

Now imagine one of the great voids of the cosmos. This void is encircled with galaxy clusters connected by tendrils of galaxies. 
Imagine a a plane bisecting the void and surrounding clusters and tendrils. 
A 3 dimensional graph showing the gravitational potential at every point on this plane would look like a dome. 
Now the imaginary trampoline has a huge fan underneath blowing the surface up, forming the dome. 
Traveling in any direction from the center of a void takes you to a place with a lower gravitational potential. 
The great voids of the cosmos result in space time domes.

Gravitational lensing is a familiar phenomenon. 
Massive galaxy clusters can make more distant galaxies look distorted because of the lens effect. 
It also makes them larger and brighter. 
The dip in space time is responsible for gravitational lensing. 
It acts a a convex lens and brightens and magnifies objects behind it. 
The point of this document is to suggest that a space time dome acts differently than a space time dip. 
The dome would act as a concave lens and disperse light. 
This would make objects behind it appear dimmer and smaller.

The distances of far distant objects were measured using the redshift method and the [type Ia supernovae method](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Type_Ia_supernova#Light_curve). 
The supernovas were dimmer than the redshift method would predict. 
The difference does not require acceleration of the expansion rate of the universe verse. 
The reason is  the light from the supernovae passed through one or more voids in the cosmos and appears dimmer as a result.
</section>

<section class="about" markdown="1">
### About the Author <img class="float-right img-thumbnail" src="assets/images/jack-coate.jpg" alt="" />

Jack Coate is a self-described "crank scientist" who thinks up speculative theories that usually run in contrast to mainstream science. 

Jack can be reached for comment at [post@dipsanddomes.space](mailto:post@dipsanddomes.space).
<div class="clearfix"></div>
</section>


<div>

</div>
